# numbers-to-words
Convert numbers to words in english
Two versions exists : 
 - Simple java application
 - REST API application

Developped on MacBokPro M2 Kernel Version 24.6.0 - Sequoia 15.6.1 - arm64

--- 
## 1) Simple java application

The code lies in root directory : 

```
 - sourceMe                 Env file to source before compilation
 - java/                    Directory containing jUnit libraries 
 - NumbersToWords.java      Main java code
 - NumbersToWordsTest.java  Test code
```

### Context

Checks and certain contracts, for example, require amounts to be written out in full.

This exercise involves writing a program to automate this conversion.
This program, written in Java, must convert an integer into words (in English).
 
Here are some examples:
 - "245" is converted to *two hundred forty-five*
 - "75" is converted to *seventy-five*
 
Optional bonus: implement a REST API to perform the conversion.

> Note: Since this is an exercise designed to assess my level of computer skills, I played along without using any AI tools. As I haven't practiced Java in quite some time, I thank you in advance for your indulgence :)  


### Installation

This piece of Java code has been developped with java 24.0.2 2025-07-15 without any IDE. Just a code editor (Visual Studio Code) and a shell terminal to build, test and execute the code.

The testing part depends on [junit and hamcrest](https://github.com/junit-team/junit4/wiki/Download-and-Install) libraries. These two libraries are shipped with the code to ease the use. Thus, everything needed is provided 

However, after cloning the GitHub repository, a shell command must be ran beforehand to initialize some shell env variables :
```
$ git clone git@github.com:nicolasderoche/numbers-to-words.git
$ cd numbers-to-words
$ . ./sourceMe
```

This Simple Java app works on both java env:
 - Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 24.0.2+12-54)
 - openjdk version "21.0.8" 2025-07-15 (shipped within android-studio-2025.1.4.8-mac_arm.dmg)

### Building

To build the code:
```
$ javac NumbersToWords.java 
```

### Testing

To test the code:
```
$ javac NumbersToWordsTest.java
$ java org.junit.runner.JUnitCore NumbersToWordsTest
JUnit version 4.13.2
.........
Time: 0.005

OK (9 tests)
```

### Running

To run the code:
``` 
$ java NumbersToWords 123
123 ---> one hundred twenty three

```

---

## 2) Rest API Application


### Installation
Requirement : 
 - android-studio-2025.1.4.8-mac_arm.dmg

This Rest API Java app works only with hte following java env:
 - openjdk version "21.0.8" 2025-07-15 (shipped within android-studio-2025.1.4.8-mac_arm.dmg)


The REST API Server is based on [spring.io](https://start.spring.io). The configuration files generated by the spring initializr are against:
 - Project: Gradle - Groovy
 - Language: Java
 - Sprint Boot: 3.5.6
 - Packaging: Jar
 - Java: 21
 - Dependencies: Sprint Web

 The zip code has been extracted into restapi directory and the NumbersToWords.java has been copied to keep the two application indenpendant. (Ugly to duplicate code, but intention is to keep the first app as simple as possible).

 Once deployed, the RestController is updated to call the NumbersToWords.convert function when endpoint /control is called.

The code lies in restapi directory, here are the specific files to look at : 

```
 - sourceMe                                                   Env file to source before compilation
 - restapi/                                                   Directory that hosts the SpringBoot env
 - restapi/src/main/$DEMO/NumbersToWords.java                 Main java code (same as in Simple Java App)
 - restapi/src/main/$DEMO/NumbersToWordsApplication.java      REST Controller
 - restapi/src/test/$DEMO/NumbersToWordsApplicationTests.java Test file
```
where `$DEMO=java/com/example/demo`

 ### Running
 To run the REST API part:
 ```
 $ cd restapi
 $ ./gradlew bootRun
 ```

User can then navigate : http://localhost:8080/convert?value=123 and browser displays "*one hundred twenty-three*"
Also using CURL command uses the `convert` endpoint : 

```
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/convert?value=56879"
fifty-six thousand eight hundred seventy-nine
````

### Testing
 ```
 $ cd restapi
 $ ./gradlew test
 ```



EOF 
